# HomeAutoM8

Student Name: Gary Houston
Demo Video: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLj34l4tZjW2DP-HuLLLY6FOPE020yqwAI

The aim of this project is to create an automated and user controlled Smart Home which manages the internal environment of the house by monitoring the conditions in the house using a Raspberry Pi and SenseHat and camera module. This data will be sent to the cloud where it can be easily stored, visualized and analyzed. This data in combination with further data generated by MatLab Analytics in the ThingSpeak server will be used to trigger automated actions involving devices in the house.   

Once this system has been implemented for a few devices within the home it can be easily scaled up or down to suit the needs of the user as they arise and change. Initially the sensors will take readings from heat, pressure and humidity.  

When the Temperature in the house drops below a certain threshold within a specified time range the Pi will issue a command to turn on the heating and a notification will be sent by IFTTT to the users phone and/or a Twitter post on a dedicated Twitter account. Conversely, if the temperature is above a certain level the heating will be turned off and I will be notified in the same manner.  

I would also like to be able to regulate the humidity in the house and so should the humidity fall below a certain level within a certain timeframe, the Humidifier in the kitchen/living room will be turned on and it will be switched off again once humidity rises to a certain level or when the user decides via HTTP. When Humidity rises above a certain level at any time of day or night a Dehumidifier will be activated until Humidity falls below a set threshold or the user sends a request which triggers the socket to be powered off. 

Finally, I hope to use a PIR sensor as motion detector which when activated between a certain time range will lead to the lights in the kitchen being turned on and switched
off again should no motion be detected for a set interval. As a time-dependent additional component, I hope to include: should the sensor be activated during specified times 
when no one should home the Pi camera will begin taking pictures, an alarm will sound and a notification/Twitter alert will be sent. 

This environmental/climate data will be visualized through widgets and a variety of graphs on a ThingSpeak channel allowing the user to view the data and assess the thresholds and timings for certain actions and make changes accordingly. 

Tools, Technologies and Equipment: 
Hardware: RaspberryPi 3B+, SenseHat, Camera Module, PIR Sensor, GPIO Breakout Board, Smart Plugs, Google Nest Mini, Additional Speaker, AUX cable. 

Software/Services: ThingsSpeak, React, ThingTweet, ThingHTTP, IFTTTT, Matlab Visualizations, Matlab Analysis.  

Languages and Libraries: Python3 with additional libraries such as Google Text-to-Speech. 

IDE/Editors: Thonny Python IDE and Nano Text Editior. 

 

 

